I have heard of Uncle Ed's.
Tell me, what had you heard?
Well, I just, you know, stories from my husband and his friends before I came.
I mean, Uncle Ed's was a place where the kids did go right.
And what did they do at all?
Well, I think they just drank beers, but I think they did.
As far as I can learn, it wasn't terribly wild or anything, but you could... Just a beer joint, wasn't it?
It was a beer joint, and apparently they knew what the rules were.
Some rode in a car, others walked down to Uncle Ed's room.
Oh, is that right?
Yeah, when you all went to the movie, where'd you go?
Right over here to Northgate.
At the campus.
Right, we sure did.
And of course, we went to...
what was it called, where they showed, you've never been licked?
Guy and Hall.
Guy and Hall, we went there.
That was a ritual, you went to that every year to see that movie.
It was wonderful the way the eggs reacted to it and everything.
Do they still do that?
I think so, I think so.
And then we went over to, what was it?
The Grove.
The movies were what, you got in for 25 cents or your student ID or something.
Let's see, how often did y'all go out of town while you were students here?
Not very often.
I think I remember once when we first, when I first came, we went to a ball game at, in Fort Worth at TCU football game.
But usually we just, we were here and went home at Christmas time and that was about the only time.
Describe, if you can, describe what College Station was physically.
Where, how big did it seem to be?
It didn't seem very big to me at all.
It was, now I thought Bryan was big.
But College Station itself was not much.
Do you remember buying any groceries to speak of in College Station?
No, we went to that Wine Gardens.
I guess that's all the way into Bryan, isn't it?
Yeah, that's where we usually went.
That Wine Gardens, of course, ceased existing good many years ago.
It was down where Texas Avenue curved to the northeast.
Let's see, while y'all were here, do you remember any off-campus national or international events that caused you and your husband to kind of pause and reflect on how those events might affect you?
Oh, yeah, because there was all, I mean, the 60s were a bad time.
And there was a lot of, I think that's why I just kind of break up when I think about these young men I was in class with, because a lot of college campuses were riots and, I mean,
I never was against the Vietnam War.
I mean, I thought that if that's what our government thought we should do, that that's what we should do.
I guess I'm just a follower, but I just thought if they're sending our boys, we should be supporting that.
But it was a different mentality at Texas A&M.
You did not have people protesting, or if you did, we never saw it.
We did not have that.
It was country, motherhood and God in Texas A&M.
Do you think it was more so here than at Tech?
I think that there was probably things at Tech that I did not see at Texas A&M.
Because I'm assuming that in some ways the student body there and here would come from similar backgrounds.
Right, but you've got to remember at Texas Tech, if you were not in a sorority or a fraternity, you were not in.
And you never had that at Texas A&M.
I mean, we did not see things on our campus like other places did.
You know, the people in the right gear came in to put the crowds down.
I mean, we didn't have that.
Sure.
School spirit here compared to Tech.
I'm not trying to... There's no comparison.
I mean, I've been bleeding maroon for a long time.
In fact, my middle little daughter said to my mother one time when we were driving through Lubbock, my mother said to her, she was about four and she was acting up, she said, Joni, your mother went to school right here.
We were passing by and my little Joni says, does daddy know she went there?
Let's see, your husband must have had some close buddies.
And what did you as a young wife and mother, you and those buddies, how did the friendships get built stronger?
I tell you, it's just absolutely amazing about those friendships.
We have been back and forth from West Texas to Houston twice.
Our friendships pick right back up just like they were in 1963 or four or five.
They're still, I would say he still considers those guys his best friends.
We meet for tailgates before football games.
I mean, it's just amazing the bond that grows between these people.
What builds that bond?
I do not know.
If we could bottle it, we could be rich.
I mean, it's just amazing.
It's just, it doesn't go away.
And we got so tickled.
It was before a game this last fall.
Well, there was, I guess, five couples of us sitting around a table at the MSC waiting to go to the ball game.
And we were talking about, of all things, social security, retirement, and grandbabies.
And we laughed and said, whoever thought?
And see, we're still, I mean, you're just, you just can't put your finger on it.
Now, I think partly it is midnight Yale practice, football games, muster, silver taps, commencements.
That's part of it.
But some of the rest of it is more mysterious.
Yes, it is.
It's very, it's the spirit.
Now, some of these friends, were they high school friends?
Well, right, you know, Ted was, of course, we were, Ted and Coker and I were all in the same high school class, and yes, and that's family, too.
But then there were some others.
But there's others.
And, in fact, there's one that he was raised in Bryan, and he became friends, and, of a friend, and now he's just a very good friend of my husband, and another one that was from Liberty, Texas, and, I mean, it's just,
You know, it's just amazing, the bond.
And we ran into a friend that we had not seen in years and years and years this last fall.
And it seemed like that the friendship just connected back up, just like we'd seen them the week before.
So you didn't graduate here?
No, I did not.
I need 28 hours.
As y'all were getting ready to leave
for that first job.
Did A&M play a role in helping get that first job?
No, they did not.
My husband did not have a job.
I remember that there were some people that came to interview, but not
that many, and I'm not sure, I don't remember what the help was available.
We packed our U-Haul again, and this time we had all of the things we started with, plus a baby bed and a rocker, and a high chair.
And we went back, and my husband, we went to Andrews, and my husband went to a personnel service in Odessa.
And that's how we... Ended up with the job in Andrews.
What kind of world did you all think you were going?
Was it just back like it had been?
Well, you know, it hadn't changed much.
We'd only been gone a few years and it hadn't changed much.
How well prepared did you all think he was for that A&M?
How well prepared had A&M made him?
I think he was very well prepared.
He did very well.
What was it that A&M provided in that preparation?
Well, they provided, of course, knowledge that he needed to do a job, but they also provided the know-how to be a team player and to be a leader also.
And he did very well.
One of my questions, the qualities of being an Aggie, what are the qualities of being an Aggie?
I don't know, it's just in your heart.
I mean, I'm as at a loss for words for that as anything I can think of.
It's just something.
that you either have or you don't have.
Alright, now did you have that feeling before you arrived here as a young girl?
No, but I got it the first week I was here.
What?
I don't know, it was just, even though I felt like they did not want women here, they never, I mean they were always polite and respectful,
I mean, it was like their mama told them they were supposed to be polite to girls.
And they were not forgetting that little bit.
As you visited over the years, did you begin to see that change warmer toward women?
Yes, I think so.
It was...
It was a real gradual thing, I think.
I don't think that, you know, I mean, I was gone for a while, but now when you come back, you know, you see, I mean, everybody's just like, it's just hard to describe.
Did you all go to Bonfire that first fall?
No, it was canceled.
I know why it was canceled, but... The death of our president caused it to be canceled.
What did you and your...
That was a shocking thing to us, very shocking.
We had, my husband had an accounting lab on Friday afternoon, and on Friday afternoons, I went to the laundromat while he was there.
And I will never forget, we were at the circle, waiting our turn to go, and it came on the radio.
It was about 5 till 1.
His class started at 1.
And the announcer said that the president had been shot with a shot coming from the grassy knoll at Dealey Plaza, I believe it's called.
And we were just, we just looked at each other.
We could not believe this was happening.
Of course, media was not like it is today.
So I took him on to class.
I let him out.
I'll pick you up at 3.30, just like we always do.
And I went on to the laundromat, came back home.
And it was on the radio coming from the laundromat.
The president had been shot, and I mean, I was shocked, but I wasn't a news junkie, I guess, like I am now.
I would have immediately turned the television set on, but I didn't even do that.
But it was a very somber thing, and I mean, just like it ripped the heart out of Aggies.
It was just shocking is what it was.
But the bonfire was canceled that year.
I had had a class, 12 to 1 class, and I heard it when I walked out of class.
Two or three of us were going to hurry over to the MSC and beat the student rush to eat in the cafeteria, and my buddy was listening to the radio, and I was trying to hurry up, and he said, I'm listening to the radio, and I said, you can listen to that later, and he said, listen.
And the first I heard were Walter Cronkite's words, I've just been handed a note, the president is dead.
and I was stunned and one of the things that stunned me was it happened in the county seat where I had been born.
The fact that it happened in Texas made it even worse.
But I think because of that first news broadcast that I heard that the shot was fired from the Grassy Knoll, I will always believe that that's where the shot came from.
I mean nobody's going to change my mind I don't think.
Let's see, how did you learn Aggie traditions?
Oh, my husband taught me.
Yes, he did.
You know, when the young leaders would do that, he said, this is so-and-so, Jane, this is so-and-so.
So he literally did?
Oh, yeah, he was my teacher.
He was your teacher, okay.
Do you remember any time when you goofed and did the wrong thing?
No, I really don't, because he always would help me.
until I could do it on my own and he would always help me.
Diversity, were there, as you went to class or walked down the hallway, did you notice students that were not Anglo-Saxon Protestants?
Not very many.
It was just like I said, you know,
Middle Easterner, Egypt, and really, I didn't ever see them at school.
I mean, I saw them at home, I didn't see them at school.
What about some, did you see some notice Hispanic students, whether they were Texans or not?
Oh, maybe a few, but not very many.
And I would have to say that that's probably changed for the better.
Any black students that you?
I do not remember any black students at A&M.
I do remember one black student was in a class at Tech, but I do not remember any black ones.
Let's see.
As you all were getting ready to leave, how well prepared did you think you all were?
I think my husband was very well prepared.
What have we left out that I should have?
Not much, because I told you I didn't have much.
I think one of the things that really will always be in my mind is
that during those terrible, terrible times of the 60s, that we on the Texas A&M campus were not exposed to the bad things that were happening around us.
We just didn't have that.
Did you, were you aware of any young women here who saw themselves as crusaders?
No, no, not any.
And a women's limb had not reared its head yet.
I mean, there was some, but not, you didn't hear about it very, I mean, it was a way out there thing.
Just like there would be no place for us to go between classes, you know.
I mean, we just accepted it.
That's the way it was.
I love to tell the first student body officer, female, was a very, very bright biology major, or maybe biochemistry major, young lady from Columbia, Missouri.
I later, when I went up there, I learned her father was a true world-class plant geneticist.
Her name was Barbara Sears, and about 10 years after you were here, she ran for student body secretary.
The voting booth was inside the west door of Cushing Library.
Okay.
She had very attractive eyes.
She very carefully did her eye makeup that day, had on a good-looking dress.
She stood on the steps, had a little bitty
like business cards, and as every student walked by, she would look at them and hand them one of her cards that said, Barbara Sears, Student Body Secretary, and she would very softly say, would you vote for me, and would blink her eyes, and I teased her about that two years ago when she was back on campus, and she said, yes, that's what I did.
How funny.
But now, of course, there have been a number of.
Oh, yeah.
And women are just as capable.
Sure, sure.
Just as capable.
Let's see.
What effect did you have your experience, the fact that you all went to NM, what effect does that have on your lives?
Well, I think that no matter where you are, if somebody sees that Aggie ring on my husband's hand, you probably see a friend.
I mean, it's just amazing.
And I guess that's really a sad thing for me that I did not go ahead and finish.
I mean, I've never regretted my life at all.
I mean, I've had a wonderful life, but there's just something about that, being an Aggie, just something about it.
Next to last question, if someone gave you and your husband a check for a million dollars and had only one requirement in it that you had to pass it on to Texas A&M, but you could decide what they would do with that money, what would you have a, if you could make a big gift A&M, what would you want it to be to do to help?
To help?
I don't know.
I've always thought that the endowed scholarships were wonderful.
I mean, I think that opens up.
Would you want to restrict them in any way as to major or geography or grades?
Well, I don't know.
You know, sometimes there are kids who are very capable and come from families who can't afford to send them, and they are left out.
So you're saying?
I mean, I'm just saying that sometimes the scale falls a little the other way, you know.
I know, see, and in our family, all of our children were educated at Angelo State.
And my girls each got academic scholarships.
We could well afford to pay their way, but it was wonderful.
I mean, it was kind of icing on their cake, you know.
And there's so much out there for disadvantaged.
Oh, yes.
Yes.
Last question then.
What feelings do you hold for Texas A&M in your heart?
Oh, I love them.
I love them.
Yeah.
I just wouldn't take for my experiences.
And I guess the only regret I have is I didn't just make my kids come here.
I mean, they still, I mean, they bleed maroon.
They didn't come to A&M, but they bleed maroon.
Let's quit with that then.